<div ><h1>Project: Data Warehouse</h1>
<h3 id="introduction">Introduction</h3>
<p>A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.</p>
<p>we are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights into what songs their users are listening to. we will be able to test  database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to us by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare our results with their expected results.</p>
<h1 id="project-description">Project Description</h1>
<p>In this project, we will apply  data warehouses with AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift.</p>
</div>
<div class="_15vzQlp3FJ8f94suLiPCPf ureact-markdown "><h1 id="project-datasets">Project Datasets</h1>
<p>we will working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:</p>
<ul>
<li>Song data: <code>s3://udacity-dend/song_data</code></li>
<li>Log data: <code>s3://udacity-dend/log_data</code></li>
</ul>
<p>Log data json path: <code>s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json</code></p>
<h2 id="song-dataset">Song Dataset</h2>
<p>The first dataset is a subset of real data from the <a href="http://millionsongdataset.com/" target="_blank">Million Song Dataset</a>. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.</p>
<pre><code class="lang-txt">song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
</code></pre>
<p>And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.</p>
<pre><code class="lang-json">{"<span class="hljs-attribute">num_songs</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-number">1</span></span>, "<span class="hljs-attribute">artist_id</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-string">"ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7"</span></span>, "<span class="hljs-attribute">artist_latitude</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-literal">null</span></span>, "<span class="hljs-attribute">artist_longitude</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-literal">null</span></span>, "<span class="hljs-attribute">artist_location</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-string">""</span></span>, "<span class="hljs-attribute">artist_name</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-string">"Line Renaud"</span></span>, "<span class="hljs-attribute">song_id</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-string">"SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1"</span></span>, "<span class="hljs-attribute">title</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-string">"Der Kleine Dompfaff"</span></span>, "<span class="hljs-attribute">duration</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-number">152.92036</span></span>, "<span class="hljs-attribute">year</span>": <span class="hljs-value"><span class="hljs-number">0</span></span>}
</code></pre>
<h2 id="log-dataset">Log Dataset</h2>
<p>The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this <a href="https://github.com/Interana/eventsim" target="_blank">event simulator</a> based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.</p>
<p>The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.</p>
<pre><code class="lang-txt">log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
</code></pre>

</div>
<div class="_15vzQlp3FJ8f94suLiPCPf ureact-markdown "><h1 id="schema-for-song-play-analysis">Project Details:</h1>
<p>Sparkify's music streaming app data, stored in S3 as JSON logs and metadata, needed to be moved to the cloud. An ETL pipeline was built to extract the data from S3, stage it in Redshift, and transform it into fact & dimensional tables, and these tables are:-</p>
<h4 id="fact-table">Fact Table</h4>
<ol>
<li><strong>songplays</strong> - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page <code>NextSong</code>  <ul>
<li><em>songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent</em></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
<h4 id="dimension-tables">Dimension Tables</h4>
<ol start="2">
<li><strong>users</strong> - users in the app<ul>
<li><em>user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level</em></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>songs</strong> - songs in music database<ul>
<li><em>song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration</em></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>artists</strong> - artists in music database<ul>
<li><em>artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude</em></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>time</strong> - timestamps of records in <strong>songplays</strong> broken down into specific units<ul>
<li><em>start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday</em></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
<div class="_15vzQlp3FJ8f94suLiPCPf ureact-markdown "><h1 id="project-template">Project files</h1>

<p>The project template includes four files:</p>
<ul>
<li><code>create_table.py</code> is where the fact and dimension tables for the star schema in Redshift are created.</li>
<li><code>etl.py</code> load the data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into analytics tables on Redshift.</li>
<li><code>sql_queries.py</code> contains all sql statements to create and drops the tables .</li>
<li><code>dwh.cfg</code> contains the AWS info</li>
</ul>
</div>
